#summary How to install.
#labels Phase-Deploy

= Introduction =

Before you can use SimpleOpenNI you have to install Processing and OpenNI.

 * [Installation#Processing Processing Installation]
 * [Installation#Windows Windows Installation]
 * [Installation#OSX OSX Installation]
 * [Installation#Linux Linux Installation]
----

= Processing =

  * Download [http://processing.org/download/ Processing] for your platform and install it

----

= Windows =

* Install OpenNI,NITE and the Sensor Driver *
  * Download [http://code.google.com/p/simple-openni/downloads/list?can=2&q=OpenNI_NITE_Installer+win64&colspec=Filename+Summary+Uploaded+ReleaseDate+Size+DownloadCount Installation Package Win64], or [http://code.google.com/p/simple-openni/downloads/list?can=2&q=OpenNI_NITE_Installer+win32&colspec=Filename+Summary+Uploaded+ReleaseDate+Size+DownloadCount Installation Package Win32]
  * Start the OpenNI Installer
  * Start the NITE Installer
  * Start the Sensor Installer (Driver for Primesense Devices: Asus Xtion Pro,etc.)
  * Start the Kinect Installer (Driver for Kinect)

If everything worked out, you should see the camera in your Device Manager(under PrimeSensor : Kinect Camera, Kinect Motor).

* Install SimpleOpenNI (Processing < 2.0) *
  * Download [http://code.google.com/p/simple-openni/downloads/list?can=2&q=win64+SimpleOpenNI&colspec=Filename+Summary+Uploaded+ReleaseDate+Size+DownloadCount SimpleOpenNI-Win64], or [http://code.google.com/p/simple-openni/downloads/list?can=2&q=win32+SimpleOpenNI&colspec=Filename+Summary+Uploaded+ReleaseDate+Size+DownloadCount SimpleOpenNI-Win32]
  * Copy the 'SimpleOpenNI.zip' into this folder:
      C:\Users\'your username'\Documents\Processing\libraries
  * If you don't have this folder then create it.
  * If you use the 64bit version, verify if you run Processing with 64bit. Mainly you have to install a [http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk-7u2-download-1377129.html 64bit Java version], also you have to remove the Java folder in the Processing folder.
----
= OSX =

I made a little installer(see Install OpenNI the short way), if this doesn't work for you, than you should install it the offical way. For my tests i used only OSX 10.6., with 10.5 i had some problems.

* Install OpenNI the short way *
  * Download the [http://code.google.com/p/simple-openni/downloads/list?can=2&q=Installer+osx Installer]
  * Unzip the file and open a terminal window
  * Go to the unzipped folder 'OpenNI_NITE_Installer-OSX'
{{{
> cd ./OpenNI_NITE_Installer-OSX 
}}}
  * Start the installer
{{{
> sudo ./install.sh
}}}


* Install OpenNI the official way *

Those programs have to be on your system in order to install OpenNI:
  * [http://developer.apple.com/technologies/tools/xcode.html Xcode] 
  * [http://distfiles.macports.org/MacPorts/MacPorts-1.9.2-10.6-SnowLeopard.dmg MacPorts]
  * [http://adcdownload.apple.com/Java/java_for_mac_os_x_10.6_update_3_developer_package/javadeveloper_10.6_10m3261.dmg Java JDK]
  * [http://www.cmake.org/files/v2.8/cmake-2.8.3-Darwin-universal.dmg  CMake](only if you plan to build the SimpleOpenNI library by yourself)

  * Install OpenNI
  Open the terminal and type in those commands:
{{{
> sudo port install git-core 
> sudo port install libtool
> sudo port install libusb-devel +universal
}}}

{{{
> mkdir ~/Development/Kinect
> cd Kinect
> tar xvf OpenNI-Bin-MacOSX-v1.0.0.25.tar.bz2
> sudo ./install.sh
}}}

{{{
> mkdir ~/Development/Kinect
> cd ~/Development/Kinect
> mkdir OpenNI
> mkdir Nite
> cd OpenNI
}}}

{{{
> tar xvf OpenNI-Bin-MacOSX-v1.0.0.25.tar.bz2
> sudo ./install.sh
}}}
...


* Install SimpleOpenNI (Processing < 2.0) *
  * Copy the 'SimpleOpenNI.zip' into this folder:
      /Users/'your username'/Documents/Processing/libraries
  * If you don't have this folder then create it.
----
= Linux =

* Install OpenNI,NITE and the Sensor Driver *

  * Download [http://code.google.com/p/simple-openni/downloads/list?can=2&q=Type%3DInstaller+OpSys%3DLinux+&colspec=Filename+Summary+Uploaded+ReleaseDate+Size+DownloadCount Installation Package Linux64]
  * Uncompress all files to a folder
  * Install OpenNI:
{{{
> cd ./yourFolder/OpenNI-Bin-Linux64-v1.1.0.41 
> sudo install
}}}
  * Install Nite( the installer asks you for the key, enter this *0KOIk2JeIBYClPWVnMoRKn5cdY4=* ):
{{{
> cd ./yourFolder/Nite-1.3.1.5
> sudo install
}}}
  * Install Driver Kinect (only if you use a Kinect):
  decompress ./yourFolder/avin2-SensorKinect-28738dc/SensorKinect-Bin-Linux64-v5.0.1.32.tar.bz2
{{{
> cd ./yourFolder/SensorKinect-Bin-Linux64-v5.0.1.32
> sudo install
}}}
  * Install Driver Primesense (only if you use an Asus Xtion or the Primesense Developer Kit):
{{{
> cd ./yourFolder/Sensor-Bin-Linux64-v5.0.1.32
> sudo install
}}}

* Install SimpleOpenNI (Processing < 2.0) *
  * Copy the 'SimpleOpenNI.zip' into this folder:
      ~/sketchbook/libraries
  * If you don't have this folder then create it.